[Music]
our public restrooms as dangerous as we
think to sit or not to sit that is the
question whether you're a germaphobe or
not the thought of sitting on the toilet
seat in a public restroom strikes fear
into most people
well this universal terror got us
thinking so we decided to find out if
public restrooms are as dangerous as
people think and what you can do to be
safer in them stick around till the end
of the video for a useful bonus the
answer to one of the most burning
questions regarding public restrooms
rule number one the most dangerous
places are the ones that seem the safest
nobody ever really knew for sure how
many bacteria there were under the
toilet seat or on its lid but the bio
code company one of the leading
antimicrobial technology suppliers on
the market made the first step in
dealing with this issue specialists
there decided to swab all the surfaces
in an office restroom that had gotten
good use over one working day and the
results were shocking first off they
found over 50,000 different
microorganisms in a restroom that looked
otherwise clean as for the most
contaminated object in the room
it wasn't the toilet they found the most
germs around the sink that's probably
because sinks aren't cleaned as
thoroughly as toilets are scientists
from the University of Arizona also came
to the same conclusion only 19 percent
of all bacteria in bathrooms can be
found on and in the toilet itself all
the rest well and the bathtubs and sinks
not to mention there are entire colonies
of bacteria on the floors walls
doorknobs and the flusher a shocking 62
percent of the bathroom floors that
underwent the researchers careful
scrutiny were contaminated with
dangerous bacteria Staphylococcus
Salmonella Shigella psious and saryati
amar ken says being the most common
[Music]
rule number two pay attention to the
details whenever you walk into a public
restroom pay close attention to some
things before you use it check that
their soap toilet paper and a cleaning
schedule hanging on the wall or door
take a look at the schedule itself you
want to look for today's date and time
intervals that are no more than a few
hours apart as for low traffic bathrooms
and small or medium sized offices one
cleaning a day should be enough but
those in restaurants malls airports and
other really busy places demand a
minimum of 10 cleanings a day
[Music]
rule number three choose the right stall
according to researchers even when there
are just two stalls in a restroom people
are more likely to choose the second one
and if there are more the most bacteria
will be in the middle one because it
gets used more often perhaps we're
simply making sure to have a neighbor
just in case we need to ask for TP
whatever the case if you're worried
about bacteria go for the first stall
statistically speaking fewer people have
been there so it'll be cleaner rule
number four adapt to the location if you
need to put down your bag or your things
pick the safest space outside the
bathroom but if you have no choice and
there's nobody to hold your stuff do not
put your things on the floor the safest
place is the toilet tank
[Music]
rule number five sit corrected believe
it or not we haven't always used toilets
to do our business and the ones that we
know and use today are a relatively new
design but this 90-degree position we
have to sit in when we use one is
absolutely unnatural when it comes to
going number two it causes tension and
strain and can lead to constipation and
hemorrhoids plus some doctors consider
it a potential cause of appendicitis
inflammatory bowel disease and even
heart attacks as for the 35 degree
position it's much more innate and
allows everything to take its natural
course it's not only normal in the wild
it's also common among a lot of cultures
around the world an additional advantage
of this position is a nice thigh workout
so if you're in a rush and away from
your home bowl it's better to sit in the
35 degree position to avoid any injuries
just remember though that not all places
allow visitors to stand on the seats so
if you are in one of these restrooms
just squat over the toilet and try not
to touch the seat
[Music]
rule number six don't put toilet paper
on the seat as for those who don't want
to or physically can't assume the
squatting position they like to lay
toilet paper on the seat no matter how
hygienic this might seem it's actually
one of the worst things you can do
despite what most people believe lining
the seat with toilet paper or even with
one of those fancy paper covers still
exposes you to tons of bacteria and
germs
first off toilet seats are constructed
in a very smart way their shape and
smooth surface don't let bacteria stick
to them or spread and secondly many
people often forget to close the lid
when they flush so bacteria gets sprayed
all over the restroom including on the
toilet paper roll paper
unlike toilet seats has a rough texture
that absorbs moisture really well that's
why it's a great environment for
bacteria to latch onto and multiply
what's more your own skin gives you
enough protection to stay safe from all
the nasty stuff lurking around the
toilet bowl your skin is a natural
barrier protecting you from different
harmful microorganisms Plus and get
ready for this shocking and kind of
disgusting revelation most of the
bacteria you can find on toilet seats
are already welling on your body so
unless you come with your own toilet
paper don't put it on the toilet seat
[Music]
rule number seven makes it gracefully
when you're done you need to leave the
bathroom correctly close the toilet lid
right after you stand up and flush the
water only after you close the lid rule
number eight wash your hands thoroughly
wash your hands especially well because
eight the brake attea they're covered in
bacteria you touch your face from two to
five times a minute which means that you
can easily put unwelcome guests
dangerously close to your eyes and mouth
and that's how they get into your body
and make you sick so anytime you use the
bathroom try not to touch your face
after you do your business and before
you wash all those bacteria away some
people even like to wash their hands
before they use the bathroom start by
rinsing your hands with warm or hot
water thoroughly lather them up with
soap and rub them together for at least
twenty to thirty seconds focus on the
areas under the nails in between the
fingers after you rinse off the soap dry
your hands preferably with paper towels
and that's because those electric hand
dryers can blow the germs back on your
recently washed hands once your hands
are nice and clean leave the restroom
without touching any surfaces including
the door handle use your hips feet
elbows or any other covered body part
just consider it a fun and necessary
challenge bonus time
despite all the rumors and fears
surrounding this object it's nearly
impossible to get an STD from a toilet
dr. Mary Jane Minton
a clinical professor of obstetrics and
gynecology at Yale Medical School
explains these microbiological bad guys
try not to live outside of nice
comfortable human tissue that's why they
prefer to move from one person to
another through skin-to-skin contact or
fluid exchange they don't like lying in
ambush waiting for you on a cold and
hard toilet seat so while there are lots
of legitimate reasons why you might not
be a big fan of public restrooms the
threat of contracting an STD shouldn't
be among them even the most stubborn
people can now breathe easy about this
one and the same goes for all of us we
can relax a little because overall
public restrooms aren't as dangerous as
we've been what other public places seem
especially scary to you tell us in the
comments below don't forget to share
this video with your friends and click
subscribe to stay with us on the bright
side of life